Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be working out how to produce the path that I've got here which is where
we're going to be putting our save file which is gonna be different on every platform.
And we're going to learn how to use the correct path separators for a given platform.
Let's dive in.
So as part of our saving system we're gonna need to save to an actual file.
And where are we going to say that file.
Well the location is going to depend vastly on the platform that you are deploying to if it's on Android
it's one place IOW another if it's on Windows or Mac.
They're different places for each platform.
And the good the good news is that unity allows us to abstract that away.
There is a application Doc persistent data path and that will change depending on what platform your
game is on so you can use this to locate a folder in which you can save your files no matter what platform
it is.
That's great.
But then there's other differences between different platforms and the types of paths that they can
use.
So for example on ISIS you might use forward slashes or Windows you might use back slashes and back
slashes on ISIS wouldn't work so you shouldn't use them there and things like that.
So how do you then go and combine things and make these path build these path so that you have mobile
slash containers for example you know at AUD you want to put slash save file at the end.
Well that's the difficulty.
And that's solved by C shop where we have this path dot combine method which allows you to take two
strings and it will combine them with whatever is the path separator for your particular platform.
So with these two bits of knowledge it should be sufficient for you to work out in the saving system
what our safe path should be.
So I'm going to create a private method in here that returns a string and is going to be get path from
save file and we're going to obviously take the save file as the argument here and this is where I want
you to put some logic do something cool here.
What are we going to return that's going to be your challenge and what we're going to print here in
saving 2 and loading from is instead of our save file which is quite mundane we are going to actually
print out the path so you can once you've printed out on your platform you can actually go and open
that folder and see where it is on your system.
OK.
So here's the challenge definition to compose the path choose a name that you want for your file do
you want to add an extension that you can just do.
It's the same on all platforms adding an extension so you can just do that with basic string manipulation
and then I'd like you to combine using the API actors showed you and print it out and see what you've
got a case of pause the video and a go OK.
Welcome back.
Let's see what we have got to.
So we're gonna need to take an application Dot's persistent data path and nothing needed to be included
for that.
So we're gonna get the persistent data path and then what I want to do is do a path dot combine on the
persistent data path and the save file like so now path or combine is going to require me to include
to use the system dot Io using System IO and one more thing I want to add an extension to my save file
so the save file just called save file but I want to put a dot as a v dot Sav on the end just to make
it obvious that this is a save file that's what I'm using it for and then I can go ahead and hit play
and I can use my S and L to hopefully see what the save file is the app sure enough.
Now interestingly enough it has mixed separators here on windows and I just wanted to point this out.
That's because the application top persistence.
Data path has got forward slashes in whereas the default path separator on Windows is a backslash but
that's okay because Windows can actually handle both food slashes and back slashes.
So this is still a valid path for Windows.
So if I go ahead and copy it in fact we can go ahead and open my Explorer paste it in to my explorer
and navigate to it and you can see that Windows deals with the forward slash is just fine and in here
I've got this already a save file that's from my experimenting so I can delete it so that we can don't
have any confusion.
You shouldn't have had to create something at this stage but it shows you where the safe files are going
to end up they end up in your app data.
Local low default company that's going to be whatever company you set up in unity then the project name
and then that's where it's gonna end up on Windows on Mac.
It's gonna be different and I'd like you to post what you get depending on your platform.
Okay.
So that is one of the fundamental building blocks of how we're going to access our files is to actually
know where we're going to say it in the first place and be able to manipulate parts and file parts in
the next video.
We are going to be using something called a file stream to actually write in to this path into this
particular file.
I'll see that.